[general]
name=AIVE ATLAS GEO
qgisMinimumVersion=3.44
qgisMaximumVersion=4.2.99
description=Automatically georeference aerial images from drones and aircraft without placing control points manually - process one image or batches of up to 100. Includes 200 free images each month, with no card required to sign up.
version=1.1.5-rc2
author=AIVE AI Systems
email=luis.sentis@aivesystems.com
about=
    AIVE ATLAS GEO removes one of the slowest steps in georeferencing drone imagery: placing control points manually. Select your UAV images and AIVE ATLAS GEO registers each image against reference mapping imagery automatically. It supports both individual images and batch processing of up to 100 images per submission.
    VIDEO DEMO:
    https://youtu.be/niRbey06EXU
    REQUIREMENTS:
    Each image must contain an approximate GNSS position in its metadata. An ATLAS account and internet connection are required. The Free plan includes 200 images each month, and no payment card is required to sign up.
    HOSTED SERVICE:
    Georeferencing does not run on the user's computer. Selected images are uploaded to AIVE AI Systems' hosted ATLAS service, processed there, and the resulting georeferenced files are returned to QGIS. Uploaded data is processed as necessary to provide and support the service and is not used to train or fine-tune AI models. For more information:
    https://aivesystems.com/privacy
    AVAILABILITY:
    The plugin can be downloaded worldwide, but account creation and use of the hosted ATLAS service are limited to approved jurisdictions based on the country declared for the account. The current list is available at:
    https://aivesystems.com/approved-countries
    DEPENDENCIES:
    No additional Python packages are required beyond a standard supported QGIS installation. The plugin uses the GDAL and Qt libraries included with QGIS.
tracker=https://github.com/AIVE-Systems-General/atlas-geo-plugin/issues
repository=https://github.com/AIVE-Systems-General/atlas-geo-plugin
changelog=
    Version 1.1.4 - Larger submissions, non-destructive mosaics and dated
    report filenames. You can now select up to
    100 images in one submission instead of 10. They are uploaded in small
    groups so one slow or failed request affects only that group, and
    progress is shown across the whole selection. Before the first image is
    uploaded the plugin checks your available credits against the number
    selected and stops straight away if there are not enough, showing both
    figures. If a group is declined partway through, the images already
    accepted keep processing and you are told how many were submitted and how
    many were not. If a group is interrupted by a timeout or a lost
    connection those images are reported as unconfirmed rather than as not
    submitted, because they may already have been accepted; they are not sent
    again automatically, and you are asked to check your jobs and balance
    first. Merging results into a single mosaic now only ADDS the mosaic
    layer: your other layers, including the images it was built from, are
    left exactly as they were, and removing the mosaic layer undoes it.
    Exported reports are named after the mission where you have given one,
    with the date and time of the export, so a second report no longer
    replaces the first; without a mission name the date and time are still
    used. The save window reopens in the folder you last saved a report to.
    Version 1.1.3 - Session reliability and a QGIS 4 dialog fix. The plugin
    now renews the session before the normal idle timeout, so leaving QGIS
    unused for the previously failing period no longer causes an unexpected
    'Session expired' message. A confirmed rejection or the server's maximum
    session lifetime can still require you to sign in again. When a session
    does end, the plugin returns to the sign-in screen on its own and keeps
    your email address, so Force Logout is no longer needed and the address
    does not have to be retyped. A dropped connection or a server error no
    longer signs anyone out: the plugin keeps retrying session renewal
    while QGIS remains open, and automatically restores the authenticated
    session when the connection returns.
    Signing out is now immediate and final, so a request that was already in
    progress can no longer report an expired session a moment after you have
    logged out. The sign-in token is no longer written to disk in readable
    form, and any copy left by an earlier version is removed on start-up. On
    QGIS 4, dragging any of the plugin's own dialogs by its body no longer
    raises an error; Qt6 removed the call used to read the pointer's screen
    position. Also resolves the four Qt6 and two code-quality findings
    reported by the plugin repository scan.
    Version 1.1.2 - QGIS 4 support and no external Python dependencies.
    One package now serves QGIS 3.44 LTR and the QGIS 4.2 series. Removes
    the requirement to install the 'rasterio' package by hand: image
    metadata and GeoTIFF handling use the GDAL library QGIS already ships,
    so a standard QGIS installation needs nothing added. Qt6 requires the
    scoped form of every enum that Qt5 allowed unscoped, which prevented
    the plugin from opening on QGIS 4; all Qt access now uses the scoped
    spelling, which Qt5 accepts as well. Signing in and signing out no
    longer fail on QGIS 4, where notification levels had to become named
    values rather than plain numbers. PDF and CSV report export works on
    QGIS 4 again, where Qt6 removed the older printer constants, changed
    the page margin call and renamed the document print method; export now
    uses the page layout interface, which behaves identically on both Qt
    versions and still produces an A4 page with 14 mm margins. Also fixes
    a fault that turned any start-up error into a permanent one: the
    first-run flag was cleared before the dialog was built, so a single
    failure left the plugin unable to open again and reported a misleading
    missing-attribute error instead of the real cause. Start-up failures
    are now reported in the QGIS message log with a readable message and a
    reference code, and disabling the plugin releases the dialog and its
    toolbar action.
    Version 1.1.1 - Security and reliability update. Resolves the QGIS
    plugin repository security scan findings: recoverable errors are now
    handled explicitly and recorded in the QGIS message log instead of
    being silently ignored. Limits each submission to a maximum of 10
    images. Fixes the OpenStreetMap basemap in View on Map, and an error
    when a result layer was removed during its highlight animation.
    Version 1.1.0 - Production release. Points at the production service
    (api.aivesystems.com / auth.aivesystems.com) over HTTPS. Sends altitude
    provenance so the pipeline knows whether an altitude is height above
    ground or above sea level, and no longer substitutes 0 m / 24 mm for
    metadata a camera did not record.
    Version 1.0.0 - Initial release with enhanced UI, batch processing support, and interactive map preview

tags=UAV,georeferencing,image-registration,geospatial,remote-sensing

homepage=https://github.com/AIVE-Systems-General/atlas-geo-plugin
category=Raster
icon=icon.png
experimental=False
deprecated=False
